So some larger codebases, let's talk
about in an enterprise context, or
simply on a larger engineering team.
When you encounter a large
codebase to navigate,
especially when you're new on a team,
it can be tough to sometimes navigate
around, especially as a tech lead.
I think sometimes tech leads
are hired from within.
I've also seen tech leads roles where
they're hiring brand new people, so you
have to get up to speed and so to gather
enough context to make contributions.
It's like one of the questions I asked
in interviews was what's something that
a new hire could do within 30
days that would impress you?
And an answer I got a lot
was make contributions,
cuz it can be hard to figure
out what is up to be effective.
So that's what this is all about.
It's like how do you do that?
And I have a graphic about different
code bases, interestingly,
they have the space shuttle on here
as being like a big code base.
Photoshop 1.0,
it's kind of some old classic software.
I always call my iPhone my pocket
space shuttle, cuz it has more
computing power than the first space
shuttle, [LAUGH] kind of interesting.
Here are some tips, some practical tips.
So use core components like either
third-party component libraries,
Chakra's amazing, there's a bunch now.
Headless UI has some good parts.
When you centralize the UI components for
reuse, either in your own design system or
a third party design system,
there are so many opportunities for
accessibility, or challenges,
depending on the library.
But as consumers,
you can take advantage of those decisions.
You definitely wanna test it out.
I think sometimes with design systems and
component libraries when you're a consumer
of them, they're like, they handled it,
we don't need to test it, it's fine.
But you really do,
I think you can do your framework
authors a solid by testing it and
reporting back.
Report issues, cuz they're just assuming
it works, it might not work that well.
But at the very least, if you
centralize to a core set of components,
you can make improvements in
the central location over time, and
that's just fewer places that
you have to go and make changes.
I've been making a lot of core component
improvements to date pickers and
selects, and so then we can go
grab those.and that already has
the capabilities that we needed
the last time we worked on it.
So some more code base tips,
observe conventions and
don't be afraid to suggest
more accessible improvements.
Read through the code base,
look who committed what code if you can.
Use a get lens extension or
something and figure out who committed
the anti-patterns and
who committed the code that worked better?
And can you go and talk to those people
nicely and figure out what happened there?
What's the story here?
Collect all that information and
kind of gather your perspective for
a bigger picture.
And can you make contributions in
the scope of your current team priorities?
Cuz that can be challenge.
Make accessibility easy to test.
Get some preview URLs, use storybook,
whatever you can do to make it easier to
test, you'll probably increase quality.
So I'm always pushing for that and
it can be hard in some environments, so
find however you can do it.
Storybook might be the answer,
because it's free of some of
your other pipeline constraints.
Look for accessibility documentation,
including some testing steps, and
if there aren't any, create some.
If you have an accessibility team,
maybe you could consult with them, or
working with a third-party company
of an accessibility vendor,
they might have some checklists or
some guidance.
And then if you have
champions on your teams,
give them a little time to
contribute some accessibility tips,
especially when they're tailored to
your code base, that can be helpful.
Use consistent accessibility
test rules and processes.
So as accessibility matures on your teams,
you wanna all be testing
against the same standards.
So using the same axe versions,
using the same, whatever that rule set is,
make sure your axe chrome extension is on
the same version as your automated stuff,
cuz they improve rules and
sometimes they're changes.
So yeah, we wanna be aiming for
consistency.
And there are products at all of
the big accessibility vendors that
are geared at banks and airlines and
those bigger teams that are a bit
more mature for accessibility.
And then kind of after you've
gathered doing the git blame,
looking at the code base,
see if you can talk to some of those
authors to understand what
constraints were they under.
Cuz it could tip you off on some things
that might need to get handled for
you to do things right, but
be diplomatic about it.
We don't wanna be like, why'd you do that?
[LAUGH] We wanna be like, hey, what,
talk to me about this component.
Tell me about what it was
like working on that and
what's our stance on accessibility?
Do you know anything about how
we could make this better?
The person that wrote it might not work
there anymore, that could be interesting,
you could learn that too.
So just kind of the code has
these layers of sediment and
artifacts that can tell us some of
the story about how the code came about.
That can be helpful to learn about.